So far, we have already created
the mixing and the classes.
We have one more step before we can
actually connect this together and
see if it's working.
We're going to implement
the command design pattern.
For that, I'm going to create another file
within the web app folder, command.js.
And here, we're going to
implement actually one class and
then two literal objects.
We're going to create a class for
one command.
Actually, it's one command execution,
but typically,
this is what is known as the command.
So the command is a class that
will typically has the name.
So remember, what's a command, something
that you wanna execute in your app.
So for example, it can be add, delete.
So every action has a name.
And also, it can contain arguments.
So then just for
making this easier to construct,
we can create the constructor,
receiving both name and args, and
just applying this,
>> Maximiliano Firtman: To the properties.
That's all our class, nothing else.
Then I'm going to create
some kind of enum for
all the classes we have.
We don't have enums in JavaScript, so
we can simulate the idea of an enum,
so like a short set of options.
We can call this Commands.
I'm using capital C to express
it's kind of a singleton class,
even if it's not a class,
okay, it's an object.
And then we have two right now,
ADD and DELETE.
And because this is object literal syntax,
we need to actually set a value to those.
This is just for the name.
So then we don't need to pass the name,
we can just use that constant value,
okay, like emulating
enums in other languages.
And finally, we need to create another
object that should be a singleton.
So, instead of creating a class and
applying the singleton pattern there,
I can just use the idea
of an object literal.
And I'm going to create
the CommandExecutor.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: That will for
now just have one only method, execute,
that will receive a command and
it will try to execute that.
So this is the command.
One point, we could also do OOP here and
create commands extending from command.
So there are more ways to
solve the problem, but
I don't wanna overreact, okay?
Because we can actually cross the line and
add so
much complexity to this that we
are going into an anti-pattern.
So for now, I will just do a switch,
asking for the name of that command,
and then check.
If it's Commands.ADD,
I will do something, and
if it's Commands.DELETE,
I will do something else.
Okay, I can do a break as well.
On both ADD and DELETE,
I think I will need the TodoList.
I remember our to-do list is the class
that we have created the list,
that has the singleton using getInstance.
So something that I can do is here,
before the switch,
I can create the property,
a reference to that TodoList.getInstance.
So we can use the instance on
both the ADD and DELETE commands.
Have in mind that TodoList is a class
that is available on a separate file on
a separate module.
So VS Code may have already added
the import that we know it's in value for
the browser.
So we need to add the .js
to that import as well.
But now we need to add some code.
And actually, I can use pretty much
the same code that I had before,
okay, in our todo without patterns.
But anyway, I need the input,
the DOM element.
And if you remember,
we do have in globalThis, the DOM object.
So globalThis.DOM,
I'm fighting with the autocomplete,
globalThis.DOM.todoInput.
That's my input.
So I'm going to take the text
from from that input.value.trim.
I'm trimming the spaces, just in case.
And then I will create an itemToAdd.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Actually, before
creating an item, I should check, for
example, if the item
is actually available.
Because remember that idea that we
don't wanna add twice the same todo.
So lunch, it should be there once.
So we can check first here if it exists or
not.
So we can say this is the itemToAdd.
So we can call, for
our todoList, our find.
Remember, we do have a find method.
So we're going to find if, A todo
with that text already exists there.
So then, we're going to add something
to the list if two conditions are true.
First, the text shouldn't
be just empty string, okay?
And also,
we need the itemToAdd to be null.
Well, actually, we can change the name.
Here, it can be itemInList.
I think that will be better for
understanding what it is, right?
So then, if that's the case,
I will first remove
the value from the input,
so I will clear the input.
And then I will talk to my todoList and
I will add a new todoItem that is
another class using that text, okay?
So if those conditions are happening,
that means that I don't have the todoItem
in the list, and also it's not empty,
the text is not empty,
I'm going to add something there.
And just verify that when the new
todoItem class was added here,
it's in the right place with the .js
import, if you're using VS Code.
Okay, that's for that.
And then for DELETE, we're going
to use the arguments for DELETE.
Remember that a command has arguments.
So the arguments, typically, talking about
these arguments, typically, it's an array.
It's not mandatory,
we are creating this, okay?
But on the design pattern,
typically, arguments is an array.
That's why it's args, okay?.
There is an s, so it's an array.
So in this case, when we are deleting,
we are receiving one argument that
is the text that we wanna delete.
So we can actually destructure
the array and say the textToDelete, or
the item to delete,
it's from the current command arguments.
This is destructuring.
This is like sub zero,
it's destructuring the first element.
And then we will code to the list,
the DELETE method, delete,
passing as an argument, the textToDelete.
So at at some point, I'm pretty
sure that some of you are thinking,
I'm not sure if all of you, but
some of you're thinking that this is too
complex compared with the other example.
And yeah, I get it, okay?
I feel the pain.
But believe me that in a couple of
minutes, you will start understanding
why this is better,
mostly when we are adding features.
And you will see how simple it is to add
more features after you have implemented.
So it's like we have some pain initially,
so it's more painful initially,
but after that,
everything is is better, okay?
Okay, and I think that we
are ready with our command.
So and question on this implementation?
I think array.find returns
undefined instead of null.
Probably, we'll see.
You're talking about- Line 26 Line 26,
this one?
So this is itemInList.
This can go into find.
Okay, we can check.
I can trust you, and
we can check that later.
>> Speaker 2: I don't trust me,
so I just looked on MDN.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Okay, no worries.
Anyway, we can also do something better.
We can just check for the validity
of this in terms of, we'll see.
Anyway, because this is coming from find,
and
find is coming from classes here,
from find.
So actually, it's finding from array.
So the question is, well,
when you are using find with array,
what are you getting in return?
Good question, right?
So we can get here and see in
the documentation, it returns a value in
the array where predicate is true,
and undefined, okay, otherwise.
So you were right, it's undefined.
>> Speaker 2: MDN was right,
I wasn't sure.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: That's okay,
yeah, but that's how you drag and
you browse through this documentation and
see if something is wrong.
Okay, cool.
So now that we have this,
it's time to go back to app.js and
start filling the gaps that we have there,
okay?
So we can use the command and
also our classes and
try to render something on the screen.